# **powerboard_pcl**

_Localization, Mapping, and Path-planning for a Powered Longboard_

_Owner: Alan Hong, Northwestern University, MSR 2016_

_Project write-up [available here](https://github.com/hongalan/powerboard/blob/master/writeup.md) ._


**Table of Contents**
1. Package Description
2. ROS Package Dependencies
3. Launch Files
4. Notes on Package Usage


### **1. Package Description**

The `powerboard_pcl` package takes orientation and speed measurements sent from an Arduino and scans from a Hokuyo scanning laser range finder to perform localization, mapping and navigation.

As of December 2016, the package is able to produce a map of its environment and localize the user's longboard in the map. Development is now moving into navigation through a pre-generated map and obstacle avoidance while maintaining shared autonomy.

### **2. ROS Package Dependencies**

`powerboard_pcl` is dependent on the following packages. Upon cloning this package, you may install them by running `rosdep install powerboard_pcl` .

~~~

roscpp
sensor_msgs
rosserial_python
gmapping
map_server
laser_scan_matcher
tf
~~~

### **3. Launch Files**

### _power_map.launch_
##### Arguments:
- `rviz` default="true"
  - If set true, RViz will be launched and configured to view the `map`, `odom`, and `base_link` frames produced by odometry and laser localization scripts and the map generated by `gmapping`.
- `bag` default="false"
  - If set true, the launch file will use bagged data to produce the map instead of using measurements sent by the sensors.
- `bag_path`
  - If `bag` argument is set true, use this argument to input the path of the bag file.
- `laser_port` default = "/dev/hokuyo"
  - Set to the port connected to the Hokuyo scanning laser range finder.
  - Default value points to symbolic link produced by [udev rules](https://github.com/hongalan/powerboard/blob/master/powerboard_pcl/resources/99-usb-serial.rules) .
- `laser_port` default = "/dev/arduino"
  - Set to the port connected to the Arduino.
  - Default value points to symbolic link produced by [udev rules](https://github.com/hongalan/powerboard/blob/master/powerboard_pcl/resources/99-usb-serial.rules) .

### **4. Notes on Package Usage**

- `power_map.launch` will start multiple nodes under the `/mapper` namespace.
- To make use of symbolic links to usb devices, copy `powerboard_pcl/resources/99-usb-serial.rules` to `/etc/udev/rules.d/` .